Hi everybody and welcome back.
Now in our last lecture we looked at reading the contents of a file into a list and it was this program
here.
So I run it again.
I get the contents of my file in a list and as I said even though it looks like the output of previous
lectures before it out it's very different because it's in a list.
And once we have our information in a list we can start to work with it.
So let's see what can we do.
Well if you go back to the section on lists you'll get some ideas of what we can do such as popping
items from the list sorting lists and so on and so on.
So let's just start here with print
backslash new line.
Let's add in some hyphens just so we can separate out a different list.
I don't know where it starts and ends.
New line again.
And there we go.
So let's just say that we want to remove an item from our list.
How do we do that.
Well let's use the pop method.
So pop movies or pop movie equals lines that pop.
So we used this method way back when in our section so go back there.
Now have a lot to do and get some ideas of how you can start to manipulate the information from a file.
When you put it into a list.
So with that there.
Now let's look at your list again.
So for line in lines
line dot strip OK.
Let's run that and see what we got.
There we go.
So let me just move this up a little bit.
So there's a first list and that is 12 12 item long list there.
Now as you can see at the end of our second list Max Foster who directed Quantum of Solace has been
removed from our list.
OK.
So there's one example.
What else can we do.
Well let's just copy this and create a new line again.
There we go.
Let's say we want to sort our list alphabetically sorted list equals lines that sort.
And again let's look at your list.
So for line in lines.
Print line
dot strip removing any and all whitespace.
That's Ramdass.
And there we go.
Now let me just expand this up again.
You can see here now that our target list has been arranged alphabetically.
OK.
So I hope that gives you an example of what you can do once you have your files contents read into a
list.
So if you want more ideas on what you can do with your files go back to the section on list.
Have a look there and get some ideas on how you can manipulate your list.
Thanks for listening and I'll see you in the next Lechter.